>> Erik Reinert: The next thing
we're going to add is a Variables,
variables TF file.
Again, just like before,
we now have the opportunity
to describe how we want this
network to be customizable.
Now, the bastion ingress,
you'll notice, is there.
Again, this is one of the things about
Terraform which is slightly cumbersome.
I don't want to call it annoying
because I understand why.
But if you have a variable
that's four modules higher,
you will have to put that variable in
every module that it gets passed through.
So we created a variable for
bastion ingress in the environment.
Well, we also need to create a variable
for the bastion ingress in the network
because the environment passes
the variable to the network.
If you think of it in kind of like react
terms, these are our component props.
So we want to make it so
that we can pass down those props to all
of the modules inside of the modules.
That's right.
I know some react stuff, but yeah,
in this case that means that by
the time this module gets loaded,
we've passed the bastion ingress from the
root module through the environment and
now down to the actual network so
that it can be used again.
These layers make it so that all the way
up here I, I can make one little tweak and
then down here it will get updated and
again going back to the whole Legos or
even building, that's what you want.
You wanna make one tiny change and then
see it propagate across a larger scale.
But some of the other stuff is a little
bit more specific, availability zones.
A big reason why we have Availability
zones is up there is honestly just like
maybe you don't wanna
provision in all three AZs.
Maybe, maybe you don't wanna, maybe you
don't need five availability zones.
The reality of it is,
is who here knows what it would take for
an Availability Zone to go down,
by the way?
So a fun thing about azs,
Amazon has built these things like
end of the world scenario, surviving.
The only real way most
of the time an entire
Availability Zone would go down is
if they call it like an act of God.
It's pretty crazy.
But Amazon does have like act
of God redundancy, it's insane.
So unless like it's a massive earthquake
or, you know, I don't know, the,
I don't know, the head to the network like
just somehow gets completely severed.
You normally don't need like 5 AZs.
That's a little overkill.
And to be honest with you,
you're probably spending way more money
than you need to on availability.
For example, even where I work,
we only really use 2 AZS,
1 and then 1 for failover 3.
Failover means that three parts
of the country have gone down,
which is kind of a lot.
Two is normally good enough, but if you
find yourself in a scenario where you're
at a company,
this is the reason why we have this.
Say you're at a company where you
provisioned with 2 AZS 6 months
a year later you go, okay,
we actually do want three.
It is incredibly difficult if you don't
have this as a setting to then go in and
add that additional az, because then it
has to calculate those new subnet spaces.
It's got to create all
the resources around it.
It's a lot of work.
So this is another future proofing
thing where it's like, well,
if in the future we
want to add another az,
we want to make the code dynamic enough
to where I can just add it as a value.
Again, it doesn't really look like it
here because we're not at that scale,
but when you have 10,000 instances
in one AZ and you need to replicate
all of that over to another availability
zone, the ability to just add a value and
then see all of those instantly move
over is a lot nicer than going to each
one of them and be like, okay,
AZ3 AZ3 AZ3 over and over and over.
So again,
this is the kind of future proofing
that we're talking about s little bit.
Cidr.
Pretty straightforward.
Again, this is the address space of
the actual network that we want and
then the name of the network as well,
which for now,
the name of the network will
be the environment itself.
So that means that if it's dev,
the VPC will be called dev.
We're going to make an outputs TF file.
And can anyone guess what outputs are?
We said we have variables, but
what would you think an output is?
Something that can get reused from other.
Exactly.
Yep, exactly.
Yeah.
So
if you group together a whole bunch of
Terraform resources together in a module,
you do obscure away all of the values
that come out of those resources.
How do you access it?
If it's in a module,
how do you access the VPC id?
Well, Terraform provides you the ability
to use outputs in modules to then say,
okay, well if there is a security group
that you want or subnets or VPC ID or
name or whatever, it will provide it so
that you can then use this as outputs,
or you can use these as values
in other resources or modules.
So what this is saying Is that
we're going to create a network,
it's going to be highly customizable.
But at the same time, we wanted to
export values that we can use for
creating our database or
creating our clusters or whatever else.
And we don't have to recalculate or
re look up these values.
They're already there.
We can just reuse them in our code.
So outputs are only local, to be clear.
Meaning that this wouldn't mean that
I could use this in a completely
different repo.
Outputs are variables, basically.
So you'd only be able to
use it in the local repo.
Yeah, how do you think about sequencing
resource creation if you need
certain outputs or something?
Is that a concern?
No.
Yeah, it's a great question.
So Terraform does what's called
a directed acyclical graph.
And the idea is that it will take all of
your resources and then using a top sort
algorithm will say, okay, what's the
lowest level resource that nothing needs?
And it slowly builds out
everything from there.
So thank goodness you don't
have to think about that.
However, there are times where
Terraform isn't smart enough.
Maybe you have a resource that
needed to be created, but
it doesn't have a direct link to the thing
that it depends on, which is very common.
Terraform does also provide
you a depends on option.
Really quickly.
I'll show you.
What you can do is if it doesn't or
it's not able to do that,
I can be like this dependson and
then I can tell it like module vpc and
then it will wait until that's
created to then create this.
So by default it should take
care of everything, but
if it doesn't, you have the ability
to add that manually if you need to.
And sometimes you do.
It's nice when it calculates
everything automatically, but
sometimes it's just again,
your infrastructure becomes huge.
You've got thousands of resources.
It's hard to always propagate
that appropriately.